#labels xproc,xml,XQuery
W3C XProc dev mailing list
xproc-dev@w3.org

== XProc articles ==

[http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/library/x-xproc/ Jim Fuller 'Discovering XProc' IBM Developworks 2008]

[http://www.xmlprague.cz/2009/presentations/Norman-Walsh-Exploring-XProc/index.html Norman Walsh XML Prague 2009 XProc Talk]

[http://www.xmlprague.cz/2009/presentations/Vojtech-Toman-Optimizing-XML-Content-Delivery-with-XProc.pdf Vojtěch Toman XLM Prague 2009 XProc Talk]


== Useful XProc links and resources ==

[http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/NOTE-xml-pipeline-20020228/ XML Pipeline Definition Language Version 1.0: W3C Note 28 February 2002]: Read the note submitted by Sun Microsystems, Alis Technologies, Arbortext, Cisco Systems, Fujitsu, Markup Technology, and Oracle.

[http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/NOTE-proc-model-req-20040405/NOTE-proc-model-req-20040405.xml XML Processing Model Requirements: W3C Working Group Note 05 April 2004]: Peruse the W3C WG Note from 05 April 2004.

[http://www.w3.org/Submission/2005/SUBM-xpl-20050411/ XML Pipeline Language (XPL)
Version 1.0 (Draft)]: Review the W3C Member Submission submitted by Orbeon on 11 March 2005 and published on 11 April 2005.

[http://www.w3.org/XML/XProc/docs/langspec.html XProc: An XML Pipeline Language]: Explore this W3C XProc Editors Draft (the W3C working draft dated 01 May 2008).

[http://www.w3.org/XML/XProc/docs/langspec.html#namespace-fixup-guidance XProc:
Section E. Guidance on Namespace Fixup]: Review the non-normative list of suggestions for implementors to follow to reduce the need to fix up namespaces.

[http://www.w3.org/XML/XProc/docs/diff.html XProc: An XML Pipeline Language (with
revision marks)]: Peruse the W3C Working Draft with differences dated 8 May 2008.

[http://www.w3.org/TR/xproc-requirements/ XML
Processing Model Requirements and Use Cases]: Read the W3C XProc requirements and use cases document dated 11 April 2006.

[http://www.w3.org/Submission/xpl/ XML Pipeline Language (XPL) Version 1.0 (Draft)]: Check out this draft of the early W3C member submission of an XML pipeline language.

[http://tests.xproc.org XProc W3C unit test suite]: Repository where draft unit test suite for XProc is being developed.

== EX related community specifications == 

[http://exprog.org EXProc]: Intended to be a place to discuss and define extension steps to XProc.

[http://expath.org EXPath]: Community defined extensions to XPath. Currently, xprocxq uses expath http-client module.

[http://exquery.org EXQuery]: Community defined extensions to XQuery. Predicted that xprocxq will use any output from this effort.