#summary For those who want to install and play with xproc.xq

= Getting xquery.xq =

I will be releasing a packaged version for eXist and SAXON on Sept 6th.

currently, your only method of getting xproc.xq is checking it out from [http://code.google.com/p/xprocxq/source subversion].

{{{
# Non-members may svn check out a read-only working copy anonymously over HTTP.
svn checkout http://xprocxq.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ xprocxq-read-only
}}}


= Installation and Dependencies =

The current definition of dependencies is contained in the source code [http://xprocxq.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/main/README README] document.

*I*: XQuery processor (only Saxon-SA currently supported).

*II*: For now, one will require [http://ant.apache.org Apache Ant] to run unit tests and compile associated artifacts.

*III*: Run the saxon-compile Ant Target, to compile the small extension currently required for Saxon-SA (or compile manually)

*IV*: Amend your local [http://xprocxq.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/main/properties.xml properties.xml] to reflect your setup and where your Xquery processor jars are.


= Usage =

*warning:* xproc.xq DOES VERY LITTLE AT THIS MOMENT.

In fact, it is not possible to run it without SAXON-SA and ANT, and even then, you are just running some pretty specific unit tests.

to get Ant targets, run Apache Ant with -projecthelp switch  

> ant -projecthelp

Buildfile: build.xml

This build file builds the single java extension needed for Saxon-SA. Past that,
it is mostly a unit test runner for firing off XQuery and XProc tests.
Main targets:

 saxon-compile             compile xquery java extension\

 test-all-xquery           run all xquery tests

 test-comp                 test comp unit tests

 test-core                 run core xquery unit tests

 test-ext                  test ext unit tests

 test-opt                  run optional xquery unit tests

 test-std                  run std xquery unit tests

 test-step-seq             run core xquery unit tests

 test-test                 test baseline unit tests

 xproc-documentation-test  run xproc.xq on basic documentation xproc

 xproc-helloworld-test     run xproc on basic helloworld.xml xproc

 xproc-ordering-test       run xproc.xq on basic ordering xproc

 xproc-perf-test           run xproc.xq for basic performance testing