#summary README.eXist installation instructions

= Prerequisites =

This version of xprocxq requires the current trunk version of [http://exist.sourceforge.net eXist XML Database].

xprocxq uses the [http://www.expath.org EXPath] http-client module which I have included in jar form for convenience.


= Installing xprocxq =

To install within eXist XML Database follow these instructions.

== Step I ==

Place xprocxq.jar and expath.jar into $EXIST_HOME/lib/user directory and insert the following elements into eXist's conf.xml, in `<built-in-modules/>` element

{{{
<!-- expath module imports (for p:http-request)//-->
<module class="org.exist.xquery.modules.httpclient.HTTPClientModule" uri="http://exist-db.org/xquery/httpclient" />
<module src="resource:org/expath/www/mod/http-client/http-client.xqm" uri="http://www.expath.org/mod/http-client"/>
<!-- eXist XSL FO module (for p:xsl-formatter)//-->
<module class="org.exist.xquery.modules.xslfo.XSLFOModule" uri="http://exist-db.org/xquery/xslfo" />
<!-- xprocxq module imports //-->
<module src="resource:net/xproc/xprocxq/src/xquery/const.xqm" uri="http://xproc.net/xproc/const"/>
<module src="resource:net/xproc/xprocxq/src/xquery/xproc.xqm" uri="http://xproc.net/xproc"/>
<module src="resource:net/xproc/xprocxq/src/xquery/util.xqm" uri="http://xproc.net/xproc/util"/>
<module src="resource:net/xproc/xprocxq/src/xquery/functions.xqm" uri="http://xproc.net/xproc/functions"/>                                                                     
<module src="resource:net/xproc/xprocxq/src/xquery/std.xqm" uri="http://xproc.net/xproc/std"/>                                                                           
<module src="resource:net/xproc/xprocxq/src/xquery/ext.xqm" uri="http://xproc.net/xproc/ext"/>                                                                           
<module src="resource:net/xproc/xprocxq/src/xquery/opt.xqm" uri="http://xproc.net/xproc/opt"/>                                                            
<module src="resource:net/xproc/xprocxq/src/xquery/naming.xqm" uri="http://xproc.net/xproc/naming"/>
}}}

*note*: Future releases will reduce this to a single module import

== Step II ==

Please follow these instructions to support the following steps.

  p:xinclude - you must `enable-xincludes='yes'' within eXist XML Database conf.xml

  p:xsl-formatter - you will need to build eXist with extension XSLFO enabled. To do this set `include.module.xslfo = true` in extensions/build.properties

*note*: this installation step is required but may become optional in the future for people who won't need 

== Step III ==
Load /examples directory, included in the dist, into eXist XML Database. You 
can use the eXist webadmin, webdav or java client interfaces to do this.

== Step IV == 
Amend the path variable in test.xq to reflect the collection path you have placed it
in (most likely /db/examples) and test using the browser.

{{{
ex. http://127.0.0.1:8080/exist/rest/examples/test.xq
}}}


= Build from Source =

You may build xprocxq.jar from source distribution by running the dist Apache Ant target.

{{{
>ant dist
}}}